# S3
[S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) is a bucket for storing data in Amazon's Simple Storage Service, a cloud-based storage solution provided by AWS. S3 buckets allow users to store and retrieve data at any time from anywhere on the web.

Bruin supports S3 as a source for [Ingestr assets](/assets/ingestr), and you can use it to ingest data from S3 into your data warehouse.

In order to set up the S3 connection, you need to add a configuration item in the `.bruin.yml` file and in the `asset` file. You will need the  `bucket_name`, `path_to_file`, `access_key_id`, and `secret_access_key`. For details on how to obtain these credentials, read [here](https://dlthub.com/docs/dlt-ecosystem/verified-sources/filesystem/basic#get-credentials).

Follow the steps below to correctly set up S3 as a data source and run ingestion.

### Step 1: Add a connection to .bruin.yml file

To connect to S3, you need to add a configuration item to the connections section of the .bruin.yml file. This configuration must comply with the following schema:

```yaml
    connections:
      s3:
        - name: "my-s3"
          bucket_name: "my_bucket"
          path_to_file: "users.csv"
          access_key_id: "AKI_123"
          secret_access_key: "L6L_123"
```
- `bucket_name`: The name of the bucket
- `path_to_file`: The relative path from the root of the bucket. You can find this from the S3 URI. For example, if your S3 URI is s3://mybucket/students/students_details.csv, then your bucket name is `mybucket` and path_to_files is `students/students_details.csv`.
- `access_key_id` and `secret_access_key`: Used for accessing S3 bucket.

### Step 2: Create an asset file for data ingestion

To ingest data from S3, you need to create an [asset configuration](/assets/ingestr.html#asset-structure) file. This file defines the data flow from the source to the destination. Create a YAML file (e.g., s3_ingestion.yml) inside the assets folder and add the following content:

```yaml
name: public.s3
type: ingestr
connection: postgres

parameters:
  source_connection: my-s3
  source_table: 'students_details'

  destination: postgres
```
- `name`: The name of the asset.
- `type`: Specifies the type of the asset. Set this to ingestr to use the ingestr data pipeline.
- `connection`: This is the destination connection, which defines where the data should be stored. For example: `postgres` indicates that the ingested data will be stored in a Postgres database.
- `source_connection`: The name of the s3 connection defined in .bruin.yml.
- `source_table`: The name of the file/folder in s3 that you want to ingest.

### Step 3: [Run](/commands/run) asset to ingest data
```
bruin run assets/s3_ingestion.yml
```
As a result of this command, Bruin will ingest data from the given S3 table into your Postgres database.
          